The final thing we're going
to do to our Twitter app is
populate this part of the UI down here for
trends,
at this point this is the only thing
that's still coming from fixture data.
And we're gonna use this opportunity to
talk about a new concept in GraphQL and
how it relates to Typescript and
that's the idea of union types.
So, we have this concept
of a union in GraphQL,
you're almost certainly if you've used
this before in the typescript world.
And this is a case where you can have
multiple things that are trending,
you can have a hashtag that is trending,
or you can have a topic.
And that topic might refer to some entity
For which we have a name and an image,
and that'll be shown in the little card.
So, this is gonna be a case
where you'll make a request that
will give you a mixed bag of results.
There's some polymorphism happening here,
and
we're going to have to think
about how can we create that?
And then on the receiving end,
how can we process that?
Even, how do we query for this kind
of thing, where our mixed bag could
involve different properties depending
on which type of entity a member is?
So, as usual, we will begin by
modifying our GraphQl schema.
Let's grab this and paste it in,
this should be self explanatory.
We can see tweet count is something
that is common between hashtag trend and
topic trend.
Topic trend has the possibility of having
a topic trend quote associated with it.
And so this is kind of the nested record
that's only there for the topic trend.
And then of course what the user is
asking for is just give me trends,
a mix of both of these things,
give me a list of these trend things.
So, hopefully fairly straightforward.
And into the schema they go,
put them right at the bottom, great.
We're also going to almost certainly, yes,
have to add a top level query, right?
This is the entry point, this is how
somebody's asking for a list of trends.
So, let's add that to our query
type all the way up at the top.
And finally just to get the last
little bit of GraphQL stuff out
of the way before we run our code gen.
This is what we're going to add
to our get current user query.
This is much more than the current
user at this point, right?
We're getting the suggested people to
follow, we're gonna get trends now.
So, you can think of this almost
like the the initial load for
global things in our particular version
of Twitter that has no routing.
So, there's a new syntax here,
dot, dot,dot.on
topic trend, dot,
dot,dot.on hashtag trend,
this is basically telling
GraphQL what to do In
the case that a member matches
one of these two types.
And within these braces we get
the opportunity to describe
the fields we're interested
in on a per member basis.
So, for example,
we're getting tweet count on both,
we're getting this deeper object only
in the case of the topic trend, so
we're gonna grab this whole
thing we're gonna drop it in.
In App.tsx and it'll get current user,
make sure I wrote that down,
yes, App.tsx, in the Get_Current_User
summary and we will just add it
as a top level thing because it's a top
level query, oops, I did not copy that.
Great.
All right, time to codegen.
Client yarn codegen, and server.
Yarn codegen.
Awesome.
That should be good.
All right, let's handle the server part
first, so we're going to need to create
a little transform and this is
the most interesting one because we
have to use a type card, and I have on the
database representation of these topics.
I've given us kind, so let me show you
the database types for these things.
Let me collapse this one, kind and
it has a string literal type.
Does anyone know what this is called?
This is this is trivia,
is not about do you understand TypeScript?
This is about do you remember
the specific words we used to describe?
Checking for this and
narrowing types based on this.
Nicholas got it, discriminated union.
Good job, Nicholas.
That's the fancy type
theory word to use here.
So, effectively what that means is,
we'll see when we paste this in.
We can check for that field, and that
will let us in one branch of our code.
If up here T could be a trend of any kind,
and what does that mean?
It's either of these two things.
Now if kind is topic, well,
we know we're a topic trend.
Otherwise, everything that's not a topic
trend, which is a hashtag trend.
So, you can use this kind property and
string literal types to
have a discriminated union,
effectively discriminating or
doing special things to cater two,
either of these two types to
kind of a common pattern to use.
Of course, I like using the word kind
because it's not type the word type as
a way to frequently used
in this code base as it is.
All right, so we're gonna add a new
top level query resolver in our
query.ts because we've got that new trends
that returns an array of trends, right?
In our schema we added this, so now we
need to go to the query resolver and
add the appropriate resolver for that.
Here's the import for
the transform and here's the resolver.
A really simple one that just passes
things straight through from the database,
through this map function, and out.
I'll put that up at the top just
to make it easy for folks to read.
And bump ESLint just still
unhappy with me, all right.
Next, well, I wanna show you what happens
before we go on to this
next step because we
can see the problem that
the next step solves.
Trends, let's ask for trends and,
Let's just get the hashtags
that are trending.
So, the error message we get back says,
this abstract type trend
must resolve to an object type at
runtime for field Query.trends.
Either the trend type should
provide a resolve type function, or
each possible type should
provide an isTypeOf function.
This is telling us we need something
that helps us sort this mixed bag into
different piles, so that those can trickle
through their respective resolvers and
then be put back together in
this different mixed bag, right?
So, the way we're going to solve that is
taking the first suggestion which is,
resolveType.
So, we're gonna create this special
method in a new resolver for trend,
it's --resolveType, and
you can see what what's happening here is,
we're basically using
a type guard we're seeing.
like if this contains a property
called hashtag that is a string,
let's call this a hashtag trend,
otherwise, we call it a topic trend.
This will solve this problem
trend.ts in our resolvers folder.
This is because although it's a mixed
packed GraphQL needs to know which
members need to go down which
paths in the tree of resolvers.
I didn't wire it up to the main object
of resolvers, that would help right?
All right, let's do that.
So, we're gonna just do this.
Yep, it effectively was never being
ever being used as if it didn't exist,
all right, let's check it out now.
Boom, there we go.
Yeah, see, isn't that interesting?
I get like an empty object, and then
an object with the field I asked for, and
then an empty object.
What do you think's happening here?
It's the other flavor of object.
So, effectively unless you say,
give me a certain set of properties and
you cover all of the bases, you have
the potential to get back empty objects.
Something else you can add just it's a
good thing as a debugging step, typename.
Actually, let me see if we can do this.
Look at that.
That's a nice way where you can start to
see like, hey, what else coming in here?
And I think, can I do this?
No, it's not even gonna let me do
that even though it's in theory,
it's a common that exist
on all of the things but
that you'd have to be pretty
sophisticated to know what that means.
And it could be a totally different
thing in both cases, right?
Yeah, hopefully, this is good if
you're an example based learner and
you kind of can just look at this and
see, hey, this is the observed behavior,
it helps you form a mental model for
how it works.
Can I do both?
I'm curious.
Hey, yes, I can.
So, cool.
I think this means our back
end stuff works, right?
The last thing we need to do
is wire this up to the UI, so
we're gonna go back into our App.tsx.
We're gonna add one more destructured
thing in the object that we're pulling
properties off data, which is everything
that's coming back in this GraphQL query.
App.tsx, here it is, boom.
We're just added that little piece there.
And filter through the trends.
Because, interesting, I'm gonna try
without filtering just for fun.
I think it may have been notable at one
time, but it's not now we'll have to see.
All right, right bar,
We're gonna pass the real
trends into this right bar component
instead of the fixture data.
There it is.
Yep, I think it might have been nullable
in earlier version of my project,
it wouldn't have hurt if you put the
filter and it's just kind of pointless.
And let's look at the UI.
Hey, we got a lot of trends here, and
these are the little quote things that
are attached to the topics, right?
So, this is a topic trend,
here's a hashtag, here's a topic,
with the little attached thing.
So, we get a whole list of these things.
A mixed bag, a union type working
through GraphQL into TypeScript,
actually from TypeScript into GraphQL and
back into Typescript.
And that is it, we're done with the app